Another approach you should incorporate
into your thinking and strategic
analysis when we analyze
a sector is differentiation.
Differentiation is the degree of
differentiation between the offers,
between the value proposals of
the competitors that are within.
I think it should be looked at
from the client's perspective.
That is, customers perceive
that all companies offer the same.
There are sectors in which it is so, and
there are sectors in which customers
perceive that there is a lot of
difference between the different proposals.
And this has many implications
in things we'll see like profitability,
entry barriers, the degree
of competition, how prices
are fixed, etc.
We'll see later, right?
What I want you to understand now
is what differentiation is and which
sectors are more differentiated
than others.
Differentiation is not, as I say,
I have said other times, it is not
white or black, but it is a degree,
it is a scale.
We have sectors that are or
industries or markets that are
very very little differentiated,
which are in an extreme the sectors
that we call commoditized, commodities.
In the client he perceives that all
proposals are equal and sometimes
it is that they are actually equal.
Think of the raw materials,
wood or wheat sectors.
All of the options are the
same, the only issue is
the price.
The customer is not interested in buying one or
the other.
Industrial sectors are often
highly commoditized, for example.
The proposals are very similar among
the different companies and
the degree of differentiation
is growing.
For example, I'll give you the
wine industry.
The wine sector may depend on the
segments, but in the more economic
segments the degree of differentiation
is very low.
The customer is not usually
bound by any of the brands.
It is almost the same to buy
one brand than another.
Or the banks, for example.
The proposals of the banks are
very similar.
The client decides almost by
proximity, by the office that he has
nearby, because he knows the proposal
of five banks, you will realize
that they are very similar.
They try to differentiate, everyone
tries to differentiate, but in
some sectors it is more complicated
than in others.
We can also think of sectors where
they are very different.
Imagine the luxury industry
in general.
We have premium, luxury
watches here.
If you ask the customer if it is the
same for a customer who spends 10,000
or 15,000 euros on a watch, if it
is the same for him to buy a Rolex
than a Hublot, he will tell you
no.
It will tell you thousands of differences
and from your perception the proposals
are very different.
For example, I would like to refer
to the lawyers' offices.
It is true that the lawyers'
offices, the proposals themselves,
the proposed services can be very
similar, but the differentiation
occurs by people.
That is, because a very strong
link is generated between the
lawyer and the client and that
makes clients perceive differentiation.
In this case, the differentiation
is made to the person providing the service.
For example, I'll give you a case.
Sometimes within the same industry
there are segments that are more
differentiated and others are less
differentiated.
For example, in the automotive industry.
If we go to the sector of more economical
cars, normal cars, because the
differentiation is less.
The client is more likely to choose between
one or the other.
They often look at the price.
It is usually a price decision.
If we go to the extreme of ultra-
luxury cars, the differentiation
is maximum.
The perception of the customer
of buying a Rolls, of buying a
Ferrari, is huge.
You don't usually decide on the price.
They value other things.
Well, I hope you already understand
well and that you will assimilate what
is the difference between more differentiated
and less differentiated sectors.
But what really matters about
this class, besides that, is that
you understand that you know
what the implications it has
on prices, in marketing, in
competition, etc.
The fact that a sector is more or
less differentiated.
This is important and you have to go assimilating
it, right?
Although this is all common sense,
let's see point by point.
Let's start with the price and
the price sensitivity.
In the sectors that are very little
differentiated, in the sectors
that are commoditized, the
price sensitivity is maximum.
That is, the customer decides only
by price, because all proposals
are the same.
Therefore, companies that
are competing have very little
freedom to set prices or no.
When the market gives it, demand
gives it.
If you put the price a little more
expensive, that the others will not
sell anything, the price is
determined by demand.
And if you lower the prices a little,
you will sell a lot, you will sell more
than your competitors.
It is given by demand.
You think, let's go to the case
of super-differentiated sectors,
as we have seen luxury cars.
Well, since price fixation,
here there is a lot more
freedom to set the price
by the company.
It is easy to understand.
Now, let's go to the next point, marketing.
Do you think that in a commoditized
sector, such as the wood industry,
marketing is very important?
It is very little important.
The price is the important thing.
In contrast, in sectors with greater
degree of differentiation, without going
to the extreme of luxury cars, we
stay in the average, we stay
in the wine that we have more degree
of differentiation.
How do you sell the product?
gain of weight.
And the competition?
How is the competition?
Where is the fiercest competition?
In a market where everyone offers
the same or in a market where companies
are able to differentiate their
product and connect with
their customers?
Well, because competition, competitive
struggle is greater in sectors
where everyone offers the
same.
They are all competing
for the same cake, the same
customers, and the same
weapons.
This is what we call a red ocean.
In contrast, in highly differentiated
sectors, companies eventually
manage to have their loyal customers.
Within those loyal customers
they no longer have to compete
with others, etc.
I think it is easy to understand.
Another important point are the
economies of scale, which we will see
in another class.
To compete in a commoditized market,
such as the wood or raw materials
market, for example, it
is important to benefit
from economies of scale,
because the economy of
scale allows you to lower
prices.
And as we compete in price, this type
of market requires you to be very
large, to be very cost efficient and
to be able to impact those costs
on your customers.
In contrast, in more differentiated
markets, it can be small,
maybe not so cost efficient
and go up a little and impact
the price, because the customer
is willing to pay maybe a little
more if you offer something
different to others and convince
that customer.
The Margins.
Margin is much lower when the
sector is more comfortably developed.
Why is?
Because the customer is not
willing, as he said before,
to pay a dollar more.
He is not willing to pay more
because he realizes that everyone
is equal.
If I get two companies and they
offer me the same, who will I hire?
I will hire the cheapest one.
Instead, if I have to choose between
a smartphone with one operating system
or another and I like this operating
system more than the other, because
I will be willing to pay a little
more, because I perceive some
value, I perceive some differentiation
and that in what it impacts
is on the margin of the companies.
And finally, the relationship with customers.
How is the relationship with
customers in an absolutely
comforted sector?
The customer is not faithful.
The customer does not care.
It is not the same for the customer to have
one supplier of raw materials than another.
Why do they offer the same?
In contrast, in sectors with much
differentiation, either by the
product, service, or by the people
who are inside, well, because more
faithful relationships are
generated, because the customer
values that.
He appreciates it and, as we have seen
before, is willing to pay for it.